---
title: Income Against Life Expectancy Per Country
date: 2019-10-13T11:37:00.000Z
tags:
  - income inequality
  - factfulness
draft: false
---
There is this great book Factfulness, which is recommended by Bill Gates that seeks to correct our understanding of the state in which countries around the world are in. It proposes that the "Developed" vs "Developing" economic metric is outdated in the 21st century. Instead, we should adopt a new system called "Levels" where people's income can be divided into 4 levels - where Level 1(less than $2 a day) is the lowest and Level 4(more than $32 a day) the highest.

Level 1 - People living on less than $2 a day. They walk around barefoot, cook over an open flame, eat grey porridge and fetch water from a dirty hole an hour away. You can't afford basic medication and infant mortality rate is high. This is extreme poverty.

Level 2 - People living on $2 to $8 a day. You can afford sandals, chickens and have a bike for transportation! There is electricity, but it's unstable so you sit around praying that it will come back on so your kids can do homework. You also have a matress and a gas canister for cooking at home.

Level 3 - People living on $8 to $32 a day. Congratulations you now have a tap that dispenses water at will! You are able to afford a motorbike, have stoves for cooking and can afford a variety of different dishes for nutritious meals. You probably have a consistent supply of electricity and a fridge.

Level 4 - People living on more than $32 a day. If you are reading this, this is where you are at!

All this is laid out in further detail in the book Factfulness. See [Dollar Street](https://www.gapminder.org/dollar-street/matrix) for a great visual example of which how people of each level live their lives!
